# ur

This project is inspired by
[timburgan/timburgan](https://github.com/timburgan/timburgan). At the time of
writing, Tim's profile README is a game of chess that anyone can play by making
their move in an issue. The whole process is automated by GitHub Actions.

When I saw that for the first time, I knew that I had to have one. I know an
opportunity for a format screw when I see one and this looked perfect.

I also knew that straight-up copying chess would be too derivative and not
interesting enough to justify. I needed a different game. The only real
requirement was that it couldn't have any secrets — like a hidden hand of cards
— because the only way I have of displaying information is by giving the same
information to all potential players.

Chess was a very good choice. I considered draughts/checkers, but I think
that's a step down from chess. Othello/Reversi would probably have been pretty
fun to implement, but I only thought of it just now as I'm writing this. I
totally would've gone for Go, but I tried playing that a few years ago and did
not come even close to understanding it. 

I checked my cupboard full of board games and discovered that they were all
vastly more complicated than I wanted. The simplest I found was
[Tak](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tak_%28game%29), a simple abstract game
that I love but that I'm terrible at — but even that was far too complex, with
a 3D element and all sorts of moves that the player can make at any given point.

But then! I remembered [The Royal Game of
Ur](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Royal_Game_of_Ur), a game that has been
played for millenia — since 2600 BCE — but that nobody is entirely sure how to
play, because all those generations of people did not, or could not, write down
the rules. They all simply knew it, so there was no need, and as a result that
information is lost to us.

While many boards have been found, the only documentation is a Babylonian clay
table that describes a modification to the game based on previous knowledge.
The version of the game that is played today is a reconstruction of those rules
by Irving Finkel, and it may be exactly how it was played or it may be slightly
different. We cannot, and will never, know.

This story has fascinated me ever since a good friend introduced the game to me
during my first year at university. How can a knowledge that is so common be
lost to the ages?

I hope you enjoy playing the Royal Game, and that the thought of countless
generations of your ancestors playing a game that you'll never truly know sends
a shiver down your spine.

A big thank you to [Felix Schorer](https://github.com/felixschorer) for
creating the [`ur-game`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/ur-game) npm package
(MIT) that this project depends upon.
